Although light is made up of waves, Planck’s quantum hypothesis tells us that in some ways it behaves as if it were composed of particles: it can be emitted or absorbed only in packets, or quanta. Equally, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle implies that particles behave in some respects like waves: they do not have a definite position but are “smeared out” with a certain probability distribution. The theory of quantum mechanics is based on an entirely new type of mathematics that no longer describes the real world in terms of particles and waves; it is only the observations of the world that may be described in those terms. There is thus a duality between waves and particles in quantum mechanics: for some purposes it is helpful to think of particles as waves and for other purposes it is better to think of waves as particles. An important consequence of this is that one can observe what is called interference between two sets of waves or particles. That is to say, the crests of one set of waves may coincide with the troughs of the other set. The two sets of waves then cancel each other out rather than adding up to a stronger wave as one might expect.

First Program:

Although light is made up of wavez, Planck’s quantum hypothesis tells you guys that in some ways it behaves as if it were composed of particlez: it can be emitted or absorbed only in packetz, or quanta. Equally, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle implies that particlez behave in some respects like wavez: you guys do not have a definite position but are “smeared out” with a certain probability distribution. The theory of quantum mechanicz is based on an entirely new type of mathematicz that no longer describes the real world in termz of particlez and wavez; it is only the observationz of the world that may be described in those termz. There is thus a duality between wavez and particlez in quantum mechanicz: for some purposez it is helpful to think of particlez as wavez and for other purposez it is better to think of wavez as particlez. An important consequence of this is that one can observe what is called interference between two setz of wavez or particlez. That is to say, the crestz of one set of wavez may coincide with the troughz of the other set. The two setz of wavez then cancel you guys out rather than adding up to a stronger wave as one might expect.
